#  Classes

Java:
A class is the blueprint from which individual objects are created. Classes have a class declaration and class body. The class declaration conatins the return type, name and parameters for the class. It can also contain information about whether a class implements an interface or extends another class. The class body contains all of the code that provides for the life cycle of the objects created from the class. To initialize new instances of the class there must be a constructor. A constructor looks like a method declaration but it does not have a return type. You are not required to create your own constructor, but when there isn't one the compiler automatically provides a no-argument default constructor. If the class has a super class, the super class's no-arguement default constructor will be called instead. This can cause compilation errors if the super class has no default constructor defined. In Java there is no direct equivalent of a destructor. The garbage collector automatically destructs objects so creating a destructor is not necessary. 

C++:
A class is a user defined data type, which holds its own data members and member functions, which can be accessed and used by creating an instance of that class. Classes are defined by using the keyword class. They have the same foramt as a plain structure, but classes can also include functions and have access specifiers. All members in a class have a private access modifier by default. The definition for class functions can be declared directly within the definition of the class or outside the definition. When it is declared outside of the definition, you must use the scope operator to specify which class the function belongs to. Constructors are used to initialize objects of the class and are automatically called each time a new object is created. A constructor function is declared just like a regular member function, but with a name that matches the class name and without any return type. In C++ destructors are used to release memory when an object is destroyed. If no dynamic memory is allocated, a destructor is not necessary. A destructor is declared exactly like a constructor but there is a tilde sign in front of the name. When an object goes out of scope, a destructor is automatically called. If you don't define a destructor in the class, the compiler assumes the class has an implicitly defined default destructor.

